# Data analyst portfolio

Hello visitor!<br> <br>
It is my pleasure to welcome you here in my professional data portfolio, please enjoy your stay ;) <br> 
This portfolio consists of a showcase of my skills in Python and SQL, but please be aware that these are not the only data related skills I have. <br>

## My professional experience <br>
I joined Data Science in Tesco, London, England in September 2020 as an apprentice and learned data analytics and some data science concepts on the job. This really helped me get a real life experience and get my hands dirty in he vast amounts of data that such a big organisation has. <br>
I graduated from the apprenticeship in March 2022 as one of the three aprentices with distinction on a 50 persons course and then continued to work for Tesco in Analytics Capabilities Department. <br>
In November 2023 I joined Symprove, a disruptor in probiotics industry. In Symprove my main task was to implement, correct and overlook ELT pipelines through SLQ transforms and produce PowerBI dashboards based on the cleaned data. Due to the overlooking of these transforms, I gained much experience with troubleshooting issues with the data warehouse and dashboards. I also connected the data warehouse to the external comapnies APIs (both using Python and Kleene app interface). I designed dashboard appearance and data structures and implemented processes that vastly improved the delivery of data products. Other part of my job was to define the stakeholders needs and collect requirements from them. 
As I enjoy doing the more technica data side, I am currently considering moving into a data engineering role.
<br>
### Projects that I was part of and my role in them<br>
#### Computer vision platform (Tesco)
While on my apprenticeship in data science team I was an analyst of the performance of visual recognition of products in a non-production environment. I checked such values as precision and recall and based on available data estimated which entries may confuse the model (Python + SQL). <br>
#### Jenkins - channels project SQL querying automation (Tesco)
I introduced and productionalised Jenkins tool usage for everyday automation of SQL queries that were failing in Hadoop environment. This helped the company save hours of manual querying and reduced the time to query and made it possible for a dashboard automation (Python + SQL). 
#### Health project
##### Products labelling with a tree structure (Tesco)
I labeled 15 milions of products own brand based on their ingredients using an automated tree structure, that made it possible to see which products contain certain types of ingredients and made it possible to assign them labels based on these ingredients. I managed to save hundreds of hours of manual labeling to the company and suggested changes to make this approach futureproof (Python + SQL).
##### Loyal customers assesment (Tesco)
I produced a KNN algorythm that assigned customers to different levels of brand loyalty based on their shopping data. This provided the opportunity for more personalised add tailoring (Python). This was very similar to the project in my portfolio for diabetes prediction.
#### Floorplanning project (Tesco)
I was analyzing the floorplans generated by automated tools and the compliance of introducing them in the stores that these were proposed to (Python). 
#### Scheduled orders project (Symprove)
I produced a dashboard that informed internal and external stakeholders about the level of scheduled orders in the coming days. It allowed them to plan their staff needs better and decreased the instances where they weren't able to fulfill the scheduled orders from 2-3 instances a month to 0 a month since then. 
#### Discount codes project (Symprove)
I implemented a centralised automated solution to labeling over 40k discount codes that allowed for better data analysis. The process included involvement of a team of 10 people and overlooking their work. 
####  Route to 12month subscriptions (Symprove)
I developed a dashboard that informed the management about the way that the customers in a biggest CLTV subscription type came to the company. I answered questions such as what was the customer journey, how many times did they purchase other products, what promotion did they join on, where are they from etc. which improved their knowledge about the customer acquisition journey. 
<br><br>

## The projects on my portfolio
The projects that you can see in my portfolio are a representation of my previous experience and interest, but due to the confidentiality closure are not the exact ones that I was a part of. <br>
To see the projects, go back to the `data_portfolio` folder, and select a project of your interest. <br>
Please enjoy your stay :)
